# job-crafting-CMP
Accompanying code and data for Garcia-Navarro, Herderich, Garcia &amp; Pulido-Martos (2025)

Link to the article: coming soon

## Abstract
Job crafting involves a variety of strategies and behaviours that can vary widely among individuals and contexts, making its definition and classification both difficult and subjective. Efforts have been made to conceptualize job crafting precisely and consistently within the framework of the Job Demands-Resources (JD-R) theory. However, this theory encounters one of the major challenges associated with the conceptualization of constructs: the difficulty in capturing the complex and multidimensional nature of the phenomenon. This issue could limit the ability of JD-R theory to adequately explain job crafting. In this study we propose a methodological approach based on artificial intelligence (AI) to overcome these limitations and advance the understanding of job crafting. We used a method called the construct mining pipeline to analyse, from structured questions, sentences that generate instances of the construct of interest, in this case job crafting strategies. Using a BERT model, we transformed the answers to the questions into numerical representations through embeddings, enabling us to measure bias. In our case there were significant biases that were mitigated by keyword masking techniques. After reducing the bias, dimensionality reduction and clustering techniques were applied to group the sentences into construct dimensions. The groupings found indicated the presence of new job crafting components, suggesting that traditional categories may not fully capture the complexity of the phenomenon, which could challenge and expand JD-R theory. This method shows the potential of AI to refine the conceptualization of psychological phenomena.

## Replicability
UMAP works with random initialization, which in turn can depend on your operating system and the package versions that you are using. Furthermore, embedding models can be updated and change over time. That said, if you compute your own sentence and/or UMAP embeddings, your results might look slightly different. For full replicability, please work with the provided embeddings and materials. The environment that we used for our analyses can be reproduced using the .yml file included in this repository.

## Licensing
This work is placed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License [(CC BY-NC-SA 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). This license allows you to remix, adapt, and build upon this work non-commercially, as long as you credit the authors and license your new creations under identical terms.
